In the last session we saw how even a very
industrialized product, such as M&M chocolate, can have considerable
variation from one product to the next. So when you're on the line and you encounter some variation that the
chocolate in this package was heavier than the chocolate in this package,
how do you react? How do you know whether this was just part
of the normal way of doing business, or that there was the cause for concern? This session will introduce
a concept of controlled chance. Controlled chance will help us to
distinguish between what we would call as normal and abnormal variation. Controlled chance a part of a broader
toolbox known as statistical process control. Let me formalize the idea of normal and abnormal variation with
the following example. Now I now that over the last few weeks
you've had to suffer through my crappy hand writing, and so
this example will resonate with you. On this page here I've written
three rows of the letter r. For the first row, I used my better hand, if there is such a thing in my
handwriting such as a better hand. I used my right hand to write
eight times the letter R. Now you notice not every R is identical,
there's some small variation from one letter to
the other but they look pretty similar. We refer to the variation from one letter
to the other as a common cause variation. And the level of common
cause variation here is low. Now look at the second row. This row was written with my left hand,
and I really can't write with my left hand. Now you'll notice that the variation
from one letter to the other is bigger as you go from say
the seventh to the eighth letter. There's a high level of variation, but
it is still a common cause variation. They all kind of look similar in pattern. Now look at the last row. In the last row,
you notice a big jump in the types of letters as you go from the fourth
letter to the fifth letter. The reason for that, I wrote
the first letters with my right hand, and then I switched hands to write
the last four sets of letters. This is called an assignable cause. There's something in the underlying
process generating the letters that changed. Our role in statistical process
control is to measure the amount of Common Cause Variation exactly using
the tools that we saw in the last section talking about six sigma. But then also being aware and recognizing
if an Assignable Cause Variation happens. So how can I distinguish between
an Assignable Cause Variation and a Common Cause Variation in my process? Let's revisit our example of the M&M bags. Imagine I would go to
the grocery store every day and take a sample of five bags of M&Ms. I would then take the average
of these bags and I would plot them on a chart
that roughly looks like this. Now I know that the bags weight would
follow some underlying distribution. If I have a weight that is equal to 50 or
close to 50, I know that this behaves according to our
sample mean that we have computed before. However, if I find a bag that is
particularly heavy or particularly light, I should be concerned that there might
be some assignable cause going on. Now in our calculations we
are going to set the control limit as three standard
deviations above the mean. And we're going to set
the lower control limit at three standard deviations below the mean. And can then ask myself with what
probability was sample average of five bags fall within this range and
outside of this range. Now statistics tells us, that this band,
six standard deviations wide, explains for 99.7% of the observed cases. Put differently, if I observe
an average of a sample of five that is outside this band,
I can say it with 0.3% confidence, that some assignable cause
just happened in this system. So let's revisit our M&M data. Suppose that the samples that
we discussed in the last session was obtained as follows: I went to
the store on ten subsequent days and every day I got five bags. Now let's do some calculations. First of all, we can compute the averages of the weight that I obtained
on any different day. Now how do we interpret that number? This is an average over five numbers. I know that, by the laws of statistics,
the standard deviation of the sample of five
will have a standard deviation of the overall population divided
by the square root of five. So if I want to figure out the line for
the control line that is three standard deviations
below that, I have to basically look at the mean of 50 in this
overall population, and I have to subtract three
times the standard deviation of the samples that I'm
likely to draw on a particular day. Similarly, so this is a lower
control limit, the upper control is computed simply by taking the mean and adding three times the estimate
of the standard deviation. So this is the mean, this is the lower control limit and
this is the upper control limit. Now of course the mean changes from day
to day, as you see here on the chart. Now when we plot this information,
you see the basic idea of a control chart. You see how the sample mean is
changing from day to day and how all of these changes
are inside the control limit. Now please separate in your mind the idea
of the specification limits that we talked about earlier on and the control limits. The control limits only tell us to
what extent the process is behaving according to its normal variation. It doesn't say anything whether
the past produce is defective or not, it's just looking for
an assignable cause variation. If I now go to the store
on an eleventh day and I'm going to draw a sample with an average
that is either above the green line, or below the red line, I know there
was an assignable cause that occurred. Based on our discussion of six
sigma in the previous session and the current session's
discussion of control charts, we can summarize the idea of
statistical process control. Statistical process control is
basically a never-ending circle. You start by collecting
data about your process and measuring the current capability. You then use control charts to see
if the current process performance is in line with the empirical regularities
that you've seen in the process. You're looking for
assignable cause variation. When this assignable cause variation pops
up, you try to figure out why it happened. The control charts give
you the trigger event. They tell you that something has happened,
you then have to identify the root cause. We'll talking about root cause problem
solving in one of the coming sessions. Once you find the root cause,
be it a machine or an operator, you try to eliminate
the assignable cause variation. This gets you back to the starting point. As you are doing this, hopefully you
are able to reduce the variation in the process, and also increase
the capability score of your operation. In this session, we saw how we can use
the laws of statistics to permanently and continuously test the hypothesis that
a variation that we saw in the process was an abnormal variation due
to some assignable cause, or whether it was just the normal
way of doing business. Control charts are a very powerful tool
of keeping on top of your process. Between you and me, let me confess
that I'm even using a control chart to map out my weight on
every morning in the week. Now one nice side benefit of
the control chart is just tracking the data in it by itself even if you
don't use the control limit, but just plotting the mean over time can
be very motivational and very visual. Oftentimes, really, just seeing that data,
if you think about a diet, but also about a factory performance,
seeing that data is extremely powerful. Now there are many other forms of
control charts beyond the X bar charts that we saw in this session. However, I think with the intuition that
you got in this session you have the basic ideas behind this broader set of tools
known as statistical process control.