In this session we will use
Little's Law to define a new variable, that we will call inventory terms. Inventory terms is based on a somewhat
funny view to an operation. Think about an operation
as a big black box, where you have individual dollar
bills go into the operation. And then with some delays,
kind of being spit out of the operation. We can then for every individual dollar
bill compute a really odd number, and with the amount of time that that dollar
bill has spent inside the operation. This is really the intuition behind
the concept of inventory terms. Once we have defined inventory terms,
we can also compute the cost advantage which a company has if it's turning its
inventory faster than its competitors. Here's a comparison between to
computer companies Dell and Compaq. I know that Compaq is long gone
from the landscape, but for the sake of comparison I've
picked that data for Dell and Compaq in the year that Compaq
ended up merging with HP. And we'll give you some updated
data about Dell in just a moment. Now look at these computations, we want
to look at how many dollar bills flow through Dell per unit of time,
in this case, per year. And then we apply Little's law. The number of dollar bills in
the organization is simply $391 million. The flow of dollar bills through
the operation is the COGS, the cost of goods sold,
which is 20 billion, 20,000 million. This suggests that if we sold 14
the average dollar bill spends $391 divided by $20,000 and
it is expressed in years in the operation. You multiply this with 365 days in a year. We're going to get roughly seven days as a time that the dollar
bill spent was in debt. Now, do the similar calculation for
the case of Compaq. The inventory here, is $2 billion. The flow rate is slightly larger,
25.263 x T. And if you solve for T,
you will get roughly 29 days. So while the dollar has
only spent 7 days at Dell, was spent four times longer,
29 days at Compaq. Instead of saying that Dell
keeps their dollar bills for seven days inside the operation, we can
refer to 1/T as the inventory turns. If you're keeping your dollar bills for
seven days, given that they are 52 times
seven days in the year, you're turning your inventory
52 times in the year. This is the concept of inventory turns. One over T in the above equation is
simply COGS divided by inventory. We see that Dell turns its inventory
roughly 51 times in the year, while Compaq is turning it
roughly 12.6 times in the year. Now when you do these calculations,
be careful. Use COGS, not revenue to do these
floor unit analysis because the margins that the companies make have
really no impact on these calculations. How the inventory turns changed
over the years at Dell in the early years you saw that Dell is roughly
making 10 inventory turns per year. Over the late 90s,
Dell perfected it's business model and together with a strong tech bubble was
able to turn it's inventory way faster than 50 times per year. In their best state Dell was
actually getting the money from the customers before they
even had to pay their suppliers, leading to negative working capital. Here in the 2001 space,
you see the birth of the tech bubble. You see the big decrease in inventory
turns as the bubble bursts at around 2001. Dell restored its inventory
levels subsequently. The more recent downfall of
the inventory turns has to change, has to do with the change
in Dell's business model. More recently, Dell has emphasized
making many other things than made-to-order computers, including
televisions, PDAs and other things. These things oftentimes held at Dell's
inventory which has hurt Dell's inventory turns. To see the economic endpoints of inventory
trends, consider the following data. This is data compiled by my colleagues,
Gall, Fisher, and which shows the gross margin and the inventory turns
for large publicly traded U.S. retail. To understand the economic
implications of inventory turns, we have to first understand
the concepts of inventory costs. Ask yourself, how much does it cost a
retailer to hold one item in inventory for an entire year? At the minimum,
we have to finance that item and most large public companies incurring
capital cost of roughly 10%. But you have to also store the inventory
and especially if it's a computer, a fast living item, you also have
to adjust the cost of obsolescence. Say for sake of argument these cost,
capital, storage and obsolescence together, are 30% for
the players to show here in this data. Now let's pick two retailers
that are competing head to head in roughly the same retail segment,
retailer B and retailer A. Now, notice that neither of these
retailers is holding its inventory for an entire year. So neither of them is having to pay for
30%. But you notice that retailer A which is
turning its inventory four times per year. We have to divide the 30% by
the four turns, and we see that for every segment of sales for
75.5% as an inventory cost. We can think of this as something like
a tax rate that we have to pay to the Gods of inventory. Here's the data from retailer B. Retailer B turns its inventory faster, and that allows them to only pay 3.75%. Now this difference between retailer A and
retailer B, 3.75W% is the difference between
the two of them Is a dramatic number. This is an industry where typical
net margins range between 1 and 2%. So simply by turning the inventory faster we're gaining a dramatic
competitive advantage. >> Holding inventory is expensive. Unless you're holding French
red wine in inventory that might gain in value as it gets older,
most of the things lose value. At the same time you have to finance
the inventory which takes working capital. For this reason,
inventory turns is a very powerful metric. To capture how well you're
using your working capital. The margin advantages you might get
from faster turns looks initially small. However, if you compare it to
the net margin of a business, in most businesses fast returns has a very
significant impact on the bottom line.