Now in the last session, we discussed how
the performance of an operation can be evaluated along four dimensions,
cluster efficiency, the quality, ability to provide choice to the customer,
and responsiveness. Now as the owner of a business, of course, I would love my operations to excel
at all four of these dimensions. I would love to provide customers
with products at low prices, provide them with infinite choice,
high quality service, and all of that immediately, provide them the
products or services when they want them. Obviously, that is often not possible. As the owner of the business,
as the manager, as a consultant, I have to make
trade-offs among these four dimensions, which is really what we're going to
be discussing in this session today. Let's look at a specific example. Imagine you're consulting for a call center, the call center currently
has problems with response times. Customers are waiting a long time, and only 30% of the incoming calls
get served in 20 seconds or less. Say, for sake of argument,
that your goal is to improve this and get 80% of the calls serviced
in 20 seconds or less. This is called a service level. Now there's a tension between the forces
of responsiveness and productivity, in the sense that you could easily imagine
a call center that would have an amazing responsiveness. It would have thousands and
thousands of employees staffed. It would be very inefficient,
but it would very responsible. Vice versa, you could imagine
downsizing the workforce so that you have very few workers answering
calls, which would be great for your productivity but
very poor for your responsiveness. So there is clearly a tradeoff
between those two dimensions. But one of the things that we'll discuss
in this course is how you can use your operations and the tools in this course to
really position yourself on this graph, because every business needs a different
position in terms of the service level. And the managerial decision is how many
employees would you want to hire on a given shift. Next, imagine that you are going out,
you are working for this call center. The call center is performing about here in terms of
the responsiveness and the productivity. You engaged in some benchmarking and
you're looking at a number of other industry players along the lines of
responsiveness and productivity. First company that you
run into is company A. Company A, you notice,
is a lot more responsive then you have. So in other words their
customers have to wait less. But at the same time, you notice
that they are a lot less efficient. Then you run into company B. Now these guys here are having a much
better productivity, but they do so at the cost of some responsiveness. So they are cheaper than we are,
but they are a lot slower. Both of these make good sense
because they are really reflecting the trade-off that we just
discussed on the previous slide. Now the very next company you
run in to is Competitor C. And Competitor is a puzzle for you really because these guys are both
faster than we are, and they are cheaper. We refer to this difference here as
the inefficiency in our operation. And the line that goes, let me say this
casually, the line that includes all the industry players to its lower left, we
refer to this as the efficient frontier. Obviously, the goal of
an operation is to move out here to the upper right of this graph. Now an operation that is
currently on the frontier, in order to move to the upper right here,
it has to innovate and shift the frontier. Everybody else who is off the frontier has
the potential to simultaneously improve, allowing multiple of the four
dimensions of operational performance without having to make
necessarily a serious sacrifice. These are guys that are just
doing work smarter. Now one of the things we will
talk about in this course, is we'll help you evaluate such changes,
be it on the frontier to a new frontier, or off the frontier towards more
productivity and more responsiveness. We'll help you evaluate these changes
before you actually make them. Making these changes is expensive. And so, to the extent that you
can evaluate the financial impact before embarking on them, you'll have
saved yourself a lot of headache. Now it's time to look
at a specific example. What I've shown on this graph is
data from the US airline industry. And I plot here on the x axis
the efficiency of the carriers as measured by the ratio between the
travel miles that they provide relative to the operating expenses. I also measure on the y axis the number
that is called the yield of the airline which takes the ratio between the miles
of travel service provided by the airline relative to the revenue. Now, take a look here at this
concept of the efficient frontier. We see a line that roughly
looks like this, and that captures, basically, all of the big
airlines along a pretty linear line. The interesting outlier on this
graph is Southwest Airlines. Southwest has been able to achieve a much higher productivity compared
to the big legacy carriers. And thereby has been able to shift the
frontier, largely done because of their clever labour productivity, something that
we will analyze later on in this course. We also notice how Hawaiian Airline
has been able to achieve a similar productivity, largely because of
their small route network, but has not been able to command the high
prices relative to Southwest. Now this is data from 1996. It is interesting to contrast
this data with the year 2011. In 2011, you'll notice that the frontier
has changed very dramatically. In fact, Southwest, it has been
playing a cost game relying on low pricing has emerged us actually an airline
that has been able to charge the highest prices in the industry, yet they had
to sacrifice on the productivity side. They have been overtaken
on the productivity side by companies such as JetBlue and
Virgin America. So you notice how the frontier
in the industry has shifted. New business models have arrived, companies have played
different strategies. And because of their operations, the industry landscape now
is a very different one. All right, what have we learned today? First of all,
we notice that you cannot have it all. Just like in normal life,
where you have to set priorities, a business has to prioritize some of
the four dimensions of operational performance, cost, quality,
variety, and responsiveness. You have to decided on which of these
four dimensions you want to compete. Second, we talked about the concept
of the efficient frontier. I have casually defined the efficient
frontier as a line that includes all firms to its lower left. It was, arguably,
a quite casual definition. More formally, in academic terms,
we talk about the line of firms that has no other firm that
per rate or dominates the firm. That is, for example, cheaper and
faster at the same time. The efficient frontier is important as
our gap as a company to the frontier measures the inefficiency,
the waste that we have in our operation. One thing that we will talk about in this
course is through clever operations, through clever process design, we will help your firm to
move up towards the frontier. And then once you're on the frontier,
we'll have to continually innovate to keep on pushing the frontier to
the upper right of the graph.