In an earlier session,
we saw the drivers of flow rate. We learned that the flow rate was
driven by the minimum of demand and capacity, where capacity in turn was
driven by the bottleneck of the process. In this session,
we'll discuss the drivers of inventory. Why should there be
inventory in the process? Would we all want to be lean and
live without inventory? We'll discuss a couple of reasons
why firms might hold inventory. We'll see that variability
in particular is going to be a big driver of why
firms hold so much inventory. Now, keep in mind as we're doing this
that everything that explains inventory will implicitly also
explain the flow time. We know we're a Little's law,
holding the flow rate constant, everything that we do to
inventory we will do to flow time. So while we call this session,
five reasons for inventory, we could really also call
it five reasons for longer flow time. In our calculations for the Subway case, we assume that workers
would work like robots. It will take for example a worker
exactly nine seconds per customer to put the cheese on the sandwich. We will stick with this assumption for
a little longer, but at this time I want you to understand
the implications of assuming that these processing times have absolutely
no variability associated with them. Imagine you're working in a food truck. Say for the sake of argument, that at
any time slot of five minutes duration you can get between 0, 1 or
2 orders with equal probability. Also, have a capacity of 0, 1 or 2 orders. Now it's also not possible to make
a sandwich before the orders are occurring and customers are not willing to wait for
the sandwich. How many sandwiches will you
sell every five minutes? Well previously we defined the floor rate as the minimum between demand and
capacity. In this case, since we have an average
demand of one, and an average capacity of one, a naive analysis will suggest
that our average flow rate is one. However, this example is misleading. Let's look at all the things that
can happen at the food truck. We can have a demand that is either 0,
1, or 2. We can also have a capacity
that is either 0, 1, or 2. That leads to nine cases. If we have a demand of 0 and a capacity of 0 well
obviously the flow rate is 0. The flow rate is also 0 for a capacity
of 1 or 2, as long as the demand is 0. Remember, the flow rate is
the minimum of demand and capacity. So I apply the same calculations,
the minimum between demand and capacity, to these nine rows here. I noticed that the average flow rate is much
lower than I initially expected. Remember each of these rows here is
occurring with the same probability. And I see that the average flow rate that
I obtained this way is just 5 over 9. Put differently,
I've lost almost half of my flow rate just because of
the effect of variability. Now people refer to this
effect as buffer or suffer. Buffer or
suffer means that in a system that is not able to buffer the variability
we will suffer a loss of flow rate. Remember our crucial assumption here. The food truck is not able to make
a sandwich before the order occurs, and customers are not willing to wait for it. So we explicitly eliminate inventory. Both inventories of waiting customers and
inventories of waiting sandwiches. By allowing for inventories, we'll actually be
able to have a higher flow rate. If we allow the food
truck to make a sandwich to inventory is a situation where
the demand is 0 or vice versa. If we allow the food truck to
inventory to buffer some customers when the demand is high,
the flow rate will go up. So in other words,
inventory helps us with the flow rate by decoupling the supply and the demand. This is one of the reasons why
companies like to have inventory. Buffer or suffer, there is no right
answer to the simple question. You notice this by comparing the two
biggest restaurant chains in the world, Subway and McDonald's. At Subway, as we already discussed,
customers wait for their sandwiches to be made because the
sandwiches are made to the customer order. The customer orders the sandwich and then stands there in line potentially
waiting with other customers, until their specific sandwich,
uniquely made for them, is completed. McDonald's follows a different strategy. At McDonald's the restaurant makes
a whole batch of sandwiches. They don't make just one cheeseburger,
they just do twenty in a row. Then the sandwiches will wait for
the customer orders. So instead of the customer waiting for
the sandwich, at McDonald's, you have the sandwich waiting for
the customers. The benefit of that is that when
the customer order finally comes in you don't have to make the sandwich,
you can fulfill it immediately. So instead of having the customer wait for
sandwiches, the sandwich waits for the customer. We will call the McDonald's approach,
make to stock, or make to inventory. The main advantage of make to
stock is that it allows for scale economies in production. You going to produce 20
hamburgers in a row. The second advantage of it is it also
allows for a short flow time for the customer order. Now notice that you have a longer
flow time for the hamburger, but a short flow time for the customer order. In the Subway setting, the benefits of make to order are that
you can make the sandwiches fresh. The flow time for the sandwich are short, which comes at the expense of
the waiting time for the customer. It also allows for more customization. It would be impractical to hold
all potential versions of a Subway sandwich in inventory. By making the sandwiches to order,
you can allow the customer to choose whether they want extra mayonnaise
or no onions on their sandwich. The final benefit of made to order, is that your producing in
exactly the quantity of demand. We'll revisit the question
of make to order, make to stock,
when we talk about customer choice. Because make to order allows you,
as we discussed, to dramatically increase the level
of customization in the production. Though inventory costs us
money to store as we've seen in the calculations of inventory
turns, the examples of McDonald's have shown us that management might sometimes
be well advised to hold inventory. Let me propose five reasons why management
might want to hold inventory in the process. There might be other reasons but
I think these are the most important ones. The first reason for inventory is
what I call pipeline inventory. Pipeline inventory is a direct
result of Little's Law, I =R *T. If you are producing wine and that wine
needs to age for two years before you sell it, well you need to hold two
years of wine sales in inventory. The second reason for
inventory is called seasonal inventory. Imagine you're a toy manufacturer and 90% of your sales are happening
around Christmas. With that in mind, given that you want
to produce at a relatively steady pace all over the year ,very likely in
October and November at the latest, you're building up very
significant inventory. The third reason for
inventories called cycle inventory. Oftentimes as we already saw
in the McDonald's example, economies of scale in
the production of purchasing. Just think about how in your household
you are purchasing beer, wine, milk, orange juice or
whatever your favorite beverage is. You might be drinking
a bottle of beer a day. However it's unlikely that you're
going to run to the beer store for every individual bottle. You're buying a case and then the other
bottles sit there in inventory. We've already seen in the McDonald's
example a case of safety inventory. McDonald's doesn't want to run
out of hamburgers to sell. So they're producing
the burgers ahead of demand. They always keep a little
bit of safety stock, just to make sure that their customers
don't have to wait for the food. Finally, the last reason for
inventory is a decoupling inventory. Instead of just buffering us to external
demand from the customers, wemight also want to buffer us from internal demand
from other process steps in the operation. So the last three examples
here are really driven by the variability in the spirit of buffer or
suffer. The previous two are driven
really by variations in the supply rate to
match a seasonal demand. And the first one, the pipeline inventory, is just the minimum inventory
any operation needs to exist. Buffer or suffer. Inventory can be used to shield us
from the variability of demand. Inventory can also be used to shield
us from internal variability, be it in the form of setup times or
variability in processing times. For this reason, inventory is
really a very powerful symptom that guides you in proving your processes. Wherever you see inventory, you will
have supply and demand mismatches. And those tend to be the biggest
opportunities for process improvement. In this session we also talked about
the difference between make to order and make to stock. By following make to stock model a firm
holds inventory even if it has not yet seen the demand. This allows the operations to
look fast to the customer. Remember, the customer
doesn't want to wait. The operation looks fast to the customer, even though internally it
might actually be very slow.