So why are some operations
more productive than others? Why are some operations more
responsive than others? To answer these questions we have to
go inside the business processes that make up for the operations. This is the purpose of this module,
process analysis. In this module, we're going to introduce
the three most important performance measures of an operation,
which are called flow rate, also known as the throughput,
inventory, and flow time. To motivate these three
performance measures and get some intuition on how process analysis
works, I would like you to join me once again over to our local subway
restaurant, and just see what's going on. We'll make ourselves outside, comfortable
outside the restaurant and we'll just spend a couple of hours observing how
people come in and out of the restaurant. Now we're here to learn not to eat,
and so I will not let you get inside the restaurant,
instead I will give you an assignment. Keep track at what times
the various customers arrive. Then try to draw the following graph. On the x-axis in this graph
you're going to plot the time. On the vertical dimension you're
going to draw the cumulative number of the customers that have arrived. That means if the first customer
arrived after two minutes and 30 seconds,
you're going to draw the first point here. If the next customer came in
a minute later, at three minutes 30, the second person has arrived and you're going to plot another
data point over here. So, step-by-step, you're going to draw
the times of which customers arrive and then the number of the customer
that just have arrived. This will create a graph that
we can call the cumulative inflow of customers to the restroom. I will do a similar exercise. I will draw a graph, but my time points are not based on the arrival of the
customers but based on their departure. So whenever there is a customer
leaving I'm going to draw a step up and
keep track of the departure times. When we do this, we're going to get
a graph that looks like the following. Now 25 minutes later, you and
I will have collected the following data. I will show your graph and
my graph on the same piece of paper. The information here looks like this. Remember, you were in charge of
keeping track of the cumulative inflow of the customers here while I
was computing the cumulative outflow. You'll notice that our first customer
came at roughly 30 seconds into it. And then stayed in the system for
about a minute and a half. At which time, the customer left again. That's when I grab the customer and
make this person an outflow. If you look at our two graphs, you can
see a couple of interesting things. The vertical distance between our graphs is a number of customers
currently in the restaurant. These are customers that went in, that
have not yet come out of the restaurant. The horizontal difference
between our lines is the amount of time the customer
spent in the restroom. We saw this was the first customer
who arrived after roughly 30 seconds of observation time and
then left after two minutes. And then we see later on that some
customers have a little longer wait. So for example if you look here at
the seventh customer, this person came in around here and it took until here,
until this person was leaving. This suggests that there was beyond the
activity times in the process potentially a fair bit of waiting going on. Now before we can do any process
analysis we first have to define what we want to analyze. We defined the flow unit of the process
as the atomic unit of analysis. In this case we want to
analyze the flow of customers. Note that we could also analyze other
things in the process, for example, the flow of cheese, the flow of money,
the flow of sandwiches, or other things. For this computation here,
our flow unit is, indeed, the customer. We define the flow rate of the process or
also known as the throughput. That's the number of flow units going
through the process per unit of time. This is expressed in
customers per unit of time. For example, customers per hour. It's simply correspondent to
the slope of the two lines that we've just been drawing as a cumulative
influence or cumulative outflow. Second, we define the flow time as
the time it takes the flow unit to go through the process. This was, as you recall, the horizontal difference between
the inflow line and the outflow line. And third, we define the inventory as
a number of flow units in the process at any given moment of time. This was the vertical distance
between your line and my line. Given how important these
three definitions are, let's practice them with four examples. Consider first an immigration process. In this case the flow unit
would be the Visa application. The flow rate would be the total number of Visa applications that are either approved
or rejected in a given period of time. So flow time would be the processing time, how long our Visa applicant had
to wait for his or her Visa. And finally, the inventory would
be the number of pending cases. Next consider the production of champagne. The flow unit would be
a bottle of champagne. The flow rate would be
the bottles sold every year. The flow time would be the time that
the champagne would sit in the cellar before it is sold. And the inventory would simply be
the content of the wine cellar. Consider an MBA program
as a production process. So flow unit here is the student. The flow rate is the incoming and,
or the graduating class, so simply the number of students going
through the process per year. The processing time at least here at
Wharton, it's a two year program, so that's the time that
the student spends at school. The inventory time is the total number of
students on campus in the first year and in the second year. And finally consider a car company. The flow unit here is a car. And the flow rate is the amount
of cars sold every year. So flow time is the time from the
beginning of the production to the time that the vehicle is finally sold, and
the inventory of the cars and the system. Notice that only in the second and
fourth case here, my definition of inventory will be similar
to the world of financial accounting. In this case here, and in this case
here or the service settings, these are flow units that I would never show up
on the balance sheet of an organization. So inventory,
the number of flow units in the system. Flow rate, the number of flow units going
through the system per unit of time. And flow time, the amount of
time it takes a flow unit to go from the beginning of
the process to the end. I said at the beginning of this session
that those are the most important performance measures in any operations. But why? Who cares about inventory? Now let me give you some reasons
to care about inventory. In the US economy alone,
in a typical year, we have about $1 trillion of inventory. And that is just the manufacturing sector,
because this is accounting inventory. Now we'll notice that I,
as an operations professor, define inventory somewhat carefully and
somewhat differently from an accountant. For me a customer waiting for
service in the hospital is inventory. You will not look at a balance
sheet of a hospital and see the patients there
are listed as an asset. For me, these people are inventory. Inventory happens whenever you have
mismatches between supply and demand. Now my colleagues in Economics Department, they kind of like to ignore
the supply-demand mismatches. They take comfort in
the notion of markets and that prices will adjust once we have
a mismatch between supply and demand. However, if you are sick, and you're sitting in an emergency department
prices were not source of problem. If you're hungry waiting for your lunch,
this is not a matter of prices. For this reason I argue that
understanding inventory, flow rate, and flow time are indeed
the most important issues, not just what we do in operations,
what we do in management in general. So, keep those three measures
in mind when, next time, you go through a process,
be it as a tourist, as a person going for lunch or
when you have a chance to tour a factory. And always look for the three things,
flow rate, inventory, and flow time.