I would like to start this
module on productivity by sharing a little quote with you. I will read the quote and you'll have
to guess the person who said this. Here we go. The conservation of our national resources
is only preliminary to the larger question of national efficiency. I'll give you a hint,
it was a U.S. President. Obama? George W.? Ronald Reagan? Turns out the person who said
this was Theodore Roosevelt. More than a hundred years ago, Frederick
Winslow Taylor wrote a wonderful book known as The Principals
of Scientific Management. This was the opening line of the book. Productivity was a major theme
a hundred years ago, and is still a very current topic today. We will start out our module on
productivity with this first session in which I will introduce some more
academic definitions of productivity. What I love about Taylor's work though, it's very much driven by
observing people in action. And so the rest of module, I promise you,
will be much more hands on. As mentioned previously,
we can define productivity as the ratio between the units of output produced and
the input that is used. For example, we can define labor
productivity as 4 units per labor hour. Units might be insurance claims, it might
be vehicles or it might be patients. And so that you can think about
the output produced, the vehicles, the insurance claims, or the patients per
labor hour as a productivity measure. Notice that those are exactly
the processing time that we discussed previously. The beauty of this example is that
the only input is labor time. If you think about affirmative
very high level perspective, there are many other input
factors including capital, labor, materials,
services that the firm uses and energy. People refer to the multifactor
productivity as the output divided by the dollar values of all
of these input factors. Now stick with the example for
labor productivity a little longer. What keeps us from having
a perfect productivity? Think about the output in the productivity
definition as productive time or value add time and
the input as the total time. Productivity is then simply the percentage
of labor time that is spent productively. Now clearly, you cannot have a productivity in
this case of higher than 100%. You can never get more than 60 productive
minutes out of a worker per hour. Similarly, if you think about
the energy efficiency of your house, you might measure the output as the temperature gains that you
have in your living room and the input as the amount of oil or gas that
you burn in the basement in the heater. Again, you will never generate
more heat in the living room than you have consumed in terms of
primary energy in the basement. The interesting question
on both of these examples are really what we'd use
as the productivity. This gets us to the idea of waste and
inefficiency. Wastes are those things that
are driving down productivity and are really at the heart of understanding
the productivity in an operation. With the concept of inefficiency in mind, let's revisit the example
from the introduction. This was a group of call centers that
we benchmarked along the dimensions of responsiveness and productivity. For a call center, it is easier
to achieve a high productivity. Just staff so that your utilization
is really, really high. Now the problem with that of course,
is that your responsiveness will be very poor if you have
a very high level of utilization. On the other hand, you can increase your responsiveness if
you keep your utilization very, very low. Good for your responsiveness,
bad however, for your productivity that there exists a tension between those two
forces, responsiveness and productivity. Now consider call centers A, B and C. All of these call centers are in a line
that we've previously defined as The Efficient Frontier in the industry. This means that there is no player,
no company, no call center that dominates
competitor A, B or C. When I say dominates, I mean firms
that are both faster than we are, and at the same time also cheaper. Now you notice that competitor
D is not on the frontier. For competitor D we have
a distance to the frontier, and that is what an inefficiency looks like
at this very high level perspective. Let's bring the concept of
the efficient frontier to life by looking at some data from
The US Airline Industry. What I'm showing here is on the X axis, I'm plotting the efficiency
of the major U.S. carriers. Here efficiency is measured by how much
it costs an airline to produce a certain number of seat miles. On the Y axis I'm showing what the airline is able to command in
terms of its prices for these miles. Observe the Frontier. Observe how these airlines are lining
up on a line that looks like this. On the one extreme, you have Hawaiian,
which is not able to get high prices, but because of its very
focused route structures, able to provide an amazing efficiency. On the other extreme, you have US Airways. The company is clearly able
to command high prices, but has a horrible efficiency. You notice here how Southwest has
been able to break that Frontier and shifted upwards to a new level. Southwest entered this market in many
routes by providing its superior operations, allowing it to charge almost
the same prices as these legacy carriers, yet operating at an amazing
level of productivity. Now the data that I just showed
you was data for the year 1996. Let's take a look what has happened
in the airline industry since then. This is updated data from 2011. We have the same X axis, the Efficiency,
and the same Y axis, the Yield. Notice how Southwest, previously
a star on the productivity side, is now simply in the middle of the pack. We'll explore the reasons of
Southwest's decline in productivity later on in this module. You'll also notice how
the legacy carriers, American, United, US Airways, Continental, Delta, have basically suffered
an enormous loss in pricing power. They have kept more or
less efficiency, but they have dropped down
on the revenue side. The new darlings from
an operational perspective are companies such as JetBlue and
Virgin America. They have redefined the Frontier and
the operations of the airline industry. We define productivity as the ratio
between output and input. We will pick up that definition
later on in this module when I introduce a concept of productivity
ratios, which is a very powerful tool that can help you analyze aggregate
firm-level data and compare your productivity with the productivity
of peer companies in your industry. We also observe the enemy of productivity,
inefficiencies and waste. We defined inefficiencies and
waste as the distance between your operational performance and
the efficient frontier in an industry. At present, these inefficiencies,
this waste looks like a very abstract almost ivory tower-like concept. I promise you that in the next
session this will become much more tangible and hands on.