Last session we saw how small changes
in operational variables can have big financial rewards. One tool that helps us understand that
relationship between operational variables and financial variables is the KPI tree,
where KPI stands for key performance indicators. KPI trees are powerful ways to visualize. So the relationship between
the many operational variables and the financial bottom line. KPI creates also the starting point for sensitivity analysis that
would formally let us identify those operational variables that yield
the biggest financial improvements. Let's go back to our restaurant
example from the last session. And see KPI trees in action. The number that we care about in
the restaurant is the daily profit. What drives this profit? Profit is simply revenue minus cost. What drives the revenue here? Revenue is driven by the flow rate,
the number of customers that we serve. [SOUND] Times the dollars
that we make per customer. In our example there was $6 per customer. Flow rate, in turn, is defined as
a minimum between demand and capacity. The capacity is driven by
the bottleneck because there was a step with the lowest capacity between
stations one, two, and three. Now a case. Station two was a bottleneck, and then was
in turn driven by the processing time of station two, which consisted of the time
of putting the onions on the sandwich, lettuce, tomato,
everything else to boxing the napkin. Along with the order. On the cost side of the business,
we have fixed and variable cost. The variable cost are driven
simply by the number of sandwiches that we make times
the dollars per sandwich. Or the dollars per order. These in turns are driven by
the ingredients in the sandwich, including the bread. The meat, the cheese, the vegetables and again everything all
the way up to the napkin. So we can think of a KPI tree as
basically one big mathematical equation that combines the many variables that showed up in our spreadsheet analysis
before the data we need to drive profits. In one visual way. Evaluating changes in
the leaves of the tree and predicting the impact on profits is
the idea of sensitivity analysis. For example, we can ask ourselves
how much more profits do we make if we can put the onions
on the sandwich faster? How much more profits would we make
if we would reduce our fixed costs? If we would source our bread any cheaper? Mathematically, this
corresponds to a derivative. We take the partial derivative of profits
with respect to an operational variable. In practice, however, as we saw in
the previous session evaluating the impact of change is much easier. It doesn't require any calculus. All we have to do is build an Excel
spreadsheet and evaluate the changes. Why was the impact of a productivity
change so big on profit? Think about our business from
a financial perspective. Let's plot revenue and
cost as a function of flow rate. Our revenues are quite simple. They go up at a slope of $6 per
every customer that we serve. Our costs, however,
are a little different. Remember that we have to pay $250 in terms
of fixed cost, and another $60 of labor. This amount of money we have to spend
even if we don't sell any sandwiches. From then onwards this line slopes up, but now at a much lower slope
than the revenue curve. In fact the slope is simply $1.50 per
customer capturing our variable cost. You see that here we have a point
at which we stop making money. This is typically called
the break even point. In our baseline analysis, in the previous session, we noticed that
we were just beyond that break even point. We made a little bit of profit. However, from then onwards having
an additional customer through the system, has a very strong marginal effect. Every customer, that we serve, brings us
$4.50 that go right into the bottom line. Is the juice worth the squeeze? Changing an operation is hard but there are many operational
variables that we could focus on. The KPI tree is a powerful
tool that helps us identify those operational
variables that we should focus on. The KPI tree is also a powerful visual
that helps us understand the casual system that connects all these operational
variables with the financial bottom line. So I suggest to you that you always start
any operational improvement projects by first mapping out the process,
drawing out the process flow diagram. Then you do the process analysis
calculating the operational variables that we introduced in the first module. And then you build a KPI tree to help you
understand how these operational variables drive financial performance.