Once you encounter abnormal variation,
or once you detect a defect, you have to start
investigating the root causes. But how do you find the root cause? In this session, we'll introduce some
tools for root cause problem solving. Specifically, we'll introduce
the concept of an Ishikawa diagram, as well as a Pareto chart. Also with these tools beyond
to a toolbox known as Kaizen. The idea of the Toyota production
system is that quality and process-improvement tasks don't have to
be carried out by the management, but are carried out by
the frontline employees. So our jobs is to put together
a simple set of toolbox, so that we can equip with the frontline
workers, to go about improving their work. Ishikawa diagrams are a structured
brainstorming technique that help employees think about
the root cause for a problem. Lets get back to our chocolate example. Maybe we want to figure out why
the weight, that we have measured for a particular set of bags was too heavy. Let's think about the potential
root causes of this. One set of root causes might
relate to there being too many pieces of chocolate in the bag. Another root cause might relate to
each of the pieces being too heavy. Then in turn, it might have been
the bag that was too heavy, or maybe the scale was broken and
the batch was also the right weight. And so we're struggling
with a measurement problem. Within each of these root causes,
there are potential sub-root causes. A famous technique in the Toyota
production system is known as the 5 Why's. When you're root cause problem solving,
you keep on asking, why, why, why? The bag was too heavy, why? Well, there were too many pieces in there. Why? Well, the machine that was putting
pieces in was poorly calibrated. Why? And so on,
until you get to the root cause. Now you'll notice there's no rocket
science involved in these diagrams. It's just a useful brain
summing technique. If you draw nicer than I do, you notice that this little diagram
looks a little bit like a fish, with kind of the head of the fish up
here and these being the fish bones. For this reason,
this is also called a fish-bone diagram. Once you have mapped all
the potential root causes, you go into the field and start
collecting data about the actual defects. You'll then map out the defect
occurrences, so the number of defects for each of the types here in the issue
covered diagram for each of the types. And that leads to a graph
that looks like this. So you sort them by number of occurrency
with same too many pieces in the lead. And then all the way,
maybe having here just two problems. The weight of the bag was the root cause. And then you can plot the cumulative
number of problem occurrences in a curve that looks like this. Typically you find an 80-20 logic. 80% of the defects could be
explained by 20% of the root causes. This is known as the Pareto principle. Allow me to use the examples of
the Ishikawa diagram and the Pareto chart to make some philosophical reflections
about operations management. Most of what we do with economics and
most of what we have done in this course is create models of
the underlying operations. Now, models are always
imperfect approximation. They're hopefully good approximation, but they're still imperfect approximation of
the underlying reality in the operations. Now, as academics,
consultants, and managers, we are always at risk that the ideas
that we come up here are just based on our thoughts and the models
that we've generated in our brain. But they don't work in reality. What you've noticed is that problem
solving in Kaizen, is that there's a strong emphasis on iteration between the
world of reality and the world of thought. The trigger for the Improvement projects is happening
in the field when there are defects. Because of Jidoka we stopped the process
and start thinking about it. This reflection is happening
in the world of thought. The Ishikowa diagram forces us
to think about many root causes. And that probably will start
triggering some improvement ideas. But we don't just jump to
the idea that we like, instead we go back out in the field and
collect data. That's what the Pareto chart does. It's an empirical support for
which root cause we should go after first. Once we've identified the root cause that
accounts was the majority of the defects, we'll take that back into
the world of thought and start exploring some
alternative solutions. Again, we're not going to run out and
standardize these solutions too quickly. We'll take it back on the field and
run some small scale experiments. Only once we have done so,
can we standardize the process and say that's really a better process. So, this isolation between
the world of thought and reality is the key signature
of good problem solving. Rapid iteration is at
the heart of creativity. Notice that both the Six Sigma production
system, as well as the Toyota production system emphasize this quick iteration
between the world of thought and reality.