Throughout this course, and
especially in this quality module, we talked a lot about
the Toyota Production System. We talked about muda,
we talked about jidoka and the andon cord, kanban cards, and the Ishikawa diagram. I apologize, as my Japanese pronunciation is probably
even worse than my English one. But I think of these words and
the concepts behind these words as really, really important. Let me be clear that I'm not
trying to sell you a Camry, nor do I have any shares invested
in the Toyota Motor Corporation. I'm not endorsing Toyota as a company. I'm endorsing the Toyota Production System
as a great way of dealing with your operations. The Toyota production system is closely
related to the idea of lean operation, which we discussed early
on in this course. In this last session, I want to talk
about the Toyota Production System and how it was developed by Toyota. I want to use this as a capstone
to wrap up this course. To try to get a sense of the information
of the Toyota Production System, we have to look back
into automotive history. The first car was built by two Germans,
Daimler and Benz. This was in the late 19th century. Soon, other car builders followed. However, vehicles were produced in
job shops at very, very small scale. This made production very inefficient, and vehicles were very expensive, thus they
were only affordable to the upper class. Ford was influenced by the idea
of Frederick Winslow Taylor. We talked about some of Taylor's
ideas in the productivity module. Ford also came up with the idea of an
assembly line, a moving line rather than the workers moving, the vehicles as a full
unit should be moving through the process. Allegedly, Henry Ford was exposed to
this idea during a visit to a French slaughterhouse. You might have heard Ford's quote, you can
have any color as long as it is black. Ford did not like customization. He wanted to avoid setups, and emphasizing low variety to
keep his huge machines busy. Ford grew very rapidly. Ford was producing already in the millions
of vehicles well before World War II. The model of Ford was built
around economies of scale. This drove down the learning curve, and soon vehicles became affordable
to the middle class. This allowed Ford to flood
the market with his cars, further lowering his marginal costs. The company Toyota started out
as a maker of automated looms. They moved into vehicle production
just prior to World War II. The tragic events of world war left
Japanese economy deeply depressed. The United States, following the war,
tried to help the Japanese economy. Just as they were involved with
the Marshall Plan in Europe, they tried to re-industrialize Japan,
including building an automotive industry. As part of this, they moved some
of the machines, knowledge, and management from Detroit to Japan. The goal was to replicate the highly
successful Ford model in Japan. The problem, however,
was is it did not work. The Japanese economy around that
time had the total market demand of just a couple of thousands of vehicles,
so the production volume in the US
was about a hundred times bigger. This lack of scale made the Ford
production system fail bitterly in Japan. Soon, the Toyota managers started to
realize that they had to come up with their own production model. It's not that the Toyota Production System
was born in a weekend retreat in some nice conference hotel. It was an outcome of years and
years of work and organic problem-solving. The Toyota Production System was built
around the idea of waste elimination. The scarcity of resources
forced the Toyota folks to think smart about how
to use the resources. They also emphasized
the role of serving demand. This lack of having a domestic
demand in Japan at the time really forced the Japanese to avoid
playing with scale economies. Instead, they have to build a model of
flexibility that will allow them to serve small niche markets very profitably. I would like you to think about the Toyota production system
in the form of a big house. You will notice that this house
includes many of the concepts that we've talked about in this course. So take a look at this slide really as
capstone of this course, not just for the Japanese vocabulary. The top priority of the Toyota production
system is the reduction of waste, muda. Remember the teachings of Ohno and
seven sources of waste. The most evil source
of waste is inventory. Now, what does the Toyota production
system do about inventory? Inventory gets avoided by synchronizing
production flow with market demand. Heijunka stands for
mixed model production. Toyota factories emphasize flexibility,
and many of their lines are able to change quickly from making one
car to making another car. This allows them to produce exactly
the vehicles demanded by the market, rather than having to produce
the vehicles that are convenient to produce here in the current
setup of the plant. Another form of inventory reduction is
adjusting the production rate to market demand. Market demand drives attack time,
attack time drives the staffing, and that sets a capacity,
which avoids a buildup of inventory. We also talked in this module
about pull instead of push. Push systems get implemented using kanban
cards or make-to-order production, as we saw in the context of Dell. This flow piece is the central model
of the Toyota Production System. This is complimented with the quality
module that we saw last week. A quality module is built
around the idea of jidoka. Detect, stop, and alert. We can apply jidoka to machines, or we can use the andon cord to empower
assembly line workers to stop the line. Notice the type coupling between
the inventory and the quality module. As we discussed,
inventory covers up defects, and oftentimes get in the way
of process improvement. This is due to the long information
turnaround time that you have if you buffer. The Toyota Production System is built
on the foundations of flexibility, standardization, and worker involvement. Flexibility is implemented,
as we saw before, through takt time,
which drives the staffing level. We've standardized tasks to keep
the variability of processing time low and again to reduce buffers. The idea of quartile analysis is to avoid large operator-to-operator
variance in performance. And finally, and maybe most importantly, the Toyota Production System
is built on the people part. The part of the foundation of the Toyota
production system is kaizen, and the problem-solving of full time workers
using tools such as separator analysis and the Ishikawa diagram. So how do you apply
the Toyota Production System and the lessons of this
course to your own work? In this course, we've encountered three
enemies that mess up your operations. These three enemies are waste,
variability, and inflexibility. We talked about the seven sources
of waste and the OEE framework. The OEE framework showed us that from
the available time of a machine or a human worker,
a lot of the time is wasted, and only relatively little
time is spent value-added. That means by reducing the waste, I can
get a lot more done with less resources. Variability showed us that we
oftentimes have to hold excess capacity because customers don't
like to wait around. Excess capacity, unfortunately,
oftentimes means idle time. This reminded us of the tension
between buffering and suffering. Oftentimes, variability
also reflects poor quality. And so whenever you see variability,
we have a problem in operations. We saw this earlier on in
this module of Six Sigma. And finally, there's inflexibility. Matching supply with
demand is always hard. We either have patients waiting for
doctors, or doctors waiting for patients. The more we can do to
adjust supply to demand, the better of an operations
we're going to run. So how do you apply
the Toyota Production System and the lessons of this
course to your own work? Over the last weeks, we've encountered three enemies
that messed up our operations. These three enemies are waste,
variability, and inflexibility. We talked about the seven sources
of waste in the OEE framework in the productivity module. The OEE framework showed us that from
the available time of a machine, or a human worker,
a lot of the time is wasted and only relatively little time
is spent as value-add time. That means by reducing the waste, I can get a lot more done with
less of an expensive resource. Variability further wastes capacity. In this introductory course, we have seen variability hurt
us in the form of poor quality. We saw this earlier on in
our discussion of Six Sigma. The other problems associated
with variability in demand, and variability resulting from
poor standardization, that we did not have the time
to cover in these four weeks. And then finally, there's inflexibility. Matching supply with
demand is always hard. We either have patients wait for
doctors, or doctors wait for patients. The more we can do to
adjust supply to demand, the better of an operation
are we going to go to run. Waste, variability, and inflexibility, these are the three
enemies of a successful operation. The Toyota Production System
provides us a powerful framework of fighting all three of these enemies. This is why I've chosen
the Toyota Production System as the theme of this closing session.