One of the most obvious forms of
capacity wastage is idle time. Idle time happens for two reasons. First, by definition,
every resource that is not the bottleneck would have some excess capacity
compared to the bottleneck. This will translate into idle time. Second, if you're currently
constrained to a demand, even the bottleneck resource
will have some idle time. In this session we will talk
about ways of reducing idle time. First, we'll talk about
the concept of line balancing. Line balancing is about sharing
the work equally among the resources in the process. We'll then talk about scaling
up the process capacity as the amount potentially fluctuates. We can add or subtract workers from
the line, adjusting our capacity and saving us from incurring idle
time when the demand is low. Let us re-visit the subway example. Early on, we computed that
the labor content at the subway line was 120 seconds per customer. Now we assume that we have 80
customers arrive every hour. Previously we had determined
that the processing times for the three operators were 37 seconds
per customer at station one, 46 seconds, and 37 seconds at
station two and three respectively. The idea of line balancing is to
divide up the work evenly, so we want to take some of the work from worker
two and spread it to worker one and three. A powerful way of doing this is
by first reminding ourselves of the flow rate that this
process has to operate under. This is the idea of takt time. Takt time determines
that we have to produce a unit every 45 seconds
to keep up with demand. After all, every hour, 3600 seconds,
we have to make 80 units. So 45 seconds per unit is the takt time. Tact is a word that comes from
the German word Takt which stands for the beat of the music. In the process everyone has to
dance to the beat of demand. Every person should serve a customer and move him forward to the next
station at a speed of 45 seconds. Assuming a perfect line balance,
the takt time also helps us find how many people
we need to staff in the line. 120 seconds of labor content
divided by 45 seconds of takt time gives us that we need, round it up,
three people to do the work. Now admittedly,
this is an ideal calculation. I cannot have worker 2 put half
of a tomato on the sandwich and worker 3 put the other half. The task often cannot be divided
as easily as second by second. However I find that starting with such
an ideal calculation, that's why it's called the target manpower, is often
very eye opening and it reminds you of the true productivity improvement
potential that exists in the process. It is then up to you to design
the task of the process so that line balancing will become possible. Now imagine that demand picks
up to 160 customers per hour. The takt time changes. We now have to divide 3,600 seconds
in an hour divided by 160 units per hour,
equals to a new takt time of 22.5 seconds. So instead of serving
a customer every 45 seconds, we're serving a customer every 22 and
a half seconds. The takt of the music has picked up. This is also reflected in our
target manpower calculation. We're dividing the labor content, which is
state unchanged at 120 seconds per unit, by the new takt time, and see that in
order to fulfill this increased demand, we have to increase our staffing
number from three to six. Let's summarize our calculation for
line balancing. Line balancing starts with
computing the takt time. It's the demand that drives everything
as we're executing the process. Once we have the takt time,
we take the various tasks that make up for the flow unit, and
we will divide them among the workers so that the total processing time for
each worker is less than the takt time. You continue to do this till all of
the tasks are assigned to the workers. As you're doing this you try to keep
the number of people at a minimum. This can be written as quite a fancy
mathematical problem, but oftentimes, at least for smaller scale problems, it can be just tweaked by trying
this out a couple of times. Now, I want you to think
about the following question. What happens to labor
utilization as demand goes up? To see the effect on labor utilization, first ask yourself what happens
to takt time as demand goes up. More demands means shorter takt time. This makes balancing the line harder. To see this,
think about the opposite effect. Think about the case of balancing
a line with just one person. Balancing a one person line is trivial. That person will have little idle time,
and we have a very high labor utilization. As you go in the opposite dimension,
you add more people to the line and reduce the takt time,
line balancing becomes increasingly hard. Finally, I want to acknowledge that
the world is certainly not one big math problem to solve. The same holds for
the case of line balancing. Instead of finding some fancy
algorithm along the lines that I previously described, in practice
line balancing is often done dynamically by walking around and
looking where inventory piles up. We can then go and reassign either people
or tasks so that the flow goes faster. This typically starts by looking
at the bottleneck resource. Keep in mind that any activity that
we move away from the bottleneck has a potential to increase capacity. Balancing one bottleneck steps
however is often a fruitless task. Once you understand line balancing, you can also start dealing
with changing demand. Consider the demand
trajectory shown up here. We will refer to this
pattern as seasonal demand. For now let's just observe that
the demand changes predictively over the course of the day. The first thing that you
do is you level the demand. You want to avoid to
change your takt time or your staffing level
every minute by minute. And so you come up with the level of
demand while you hold the demand for an hour as fixed. This is arguably an imperfect
approximation, but better and more practical than changing your
staffing level every minute. Once you have a level demand,
you translate that into a takt time. Remember, more demand
means a shorter takt time. Finally, you take this takt time and you translate this into
a manpower calculation. This is done based on the target manpower
calculation that we reviewed earlier on. As you see in the example here,
in the low period settings I can get away with three workers
carrying out the six tasks. Once demand picks up,
my takt time gets shorter and I have to bring in extra people. This helps us to scale up and
down the process as demand changes. Capacity tends to be fixed,
while demand changes often over time. This leads to temporary mismatches
between supply and demand. Customers wait or resources are idle. The ability of an operation to adjust
its capacity and scale it up and down in response to a varying
demand is a form of flexibility. Most operations create their flexibility
by using either temporary workers, or by using their workers overtime. In this session we saw how
a takt time can be used to drive the demand down
into the operation. We saw how we can use takt time
to compute the staffing level required to run a process. And we also saw how takt time can be
used as a form of line balancing.