In 1988,
creative EU bureaucrats in Brussels created EU Resolution 1677-88. The resolution said that for a cucumber,
in order to be of the highest quality standard, its curvature should
not exceed ten millimeters. With a cucumber an eleven
millimeter curvature, it was no longer in
the highest quality level. Nine millimeter, however, was fine. Now this little anecdote clearly tells
us something about the creativity of politicians to come up with stupid laws. But more to the point of this session, it reminds us that often the matter of
good or bad is not as binary as it sounds. Oftentimes, there's an underlying
parameter that can be measured, be it a geometry, a weight,
or a temperature, and this underlying measurement has to
be compared with some specification. This is the basic idea behind Six Sigma. Now I have to confess that I found
it was below my academic dignity of going to the local market and purchasing 50 cucumbers only to take then
out a ruler and measure their curvature. Instead to illustrate the concept of
Six Sigma I did something much sweeter. Sweeter, though potentially unhealthier. I went to the local grocery store and
bought 50 bags of M&Ms. I then took out a high resolution scale
to measure the weight of these 50 bags. Here is the data that I got. Take a look at this data. For example, we can compute the average
of the weights in the sample. This was about 50 gram and
I have to confess was significantly higher than what the company
has labeled on the bag. That was about 47. You also see that the standard
deviation is about 1.1. To get a visual of the distribution we
can use the histogram analysis in Excel. For that, go to Data Analysis,
click on Histogram, enter the data here as the Input Range,
enter the data. As the Bin Range enter a number that
is slightly below the lowest value and the number that is slightly above
the highest value, and then click on okay. Now you get a chart that looks like this. This is a histogram of the weights and,
surprise surprise, it's interesting to see how
the laws of statistics kick in. The distribution here
is almost normal-like, with most of the values being here
somewhere in the middle around the mean. And some of the bags being either
extremely light or extremely heavy. We will use that statistical distribution
in our calculations in a moment to figure out how many defects there
will be in a very large sample. Now how should we define
an M&M bag as defective? Having eaten them all I have to confess
that all of them were quite yummy, and so I have a hard time speaking about defect. But lets say for the sake of argument
that we have a specification that a bag should have at least forty
eight grams of chocolate in there. We refer to this number as the LSL which
stands for the lower specification limit. Similarly we speak of the USL, the upper
specification level, as the number that if exceeded we would call the bag
defective, so lets say for the sake of argument the bag is defective if they have
more than 52 grams of chocolate in there. With these two numbers I can
compute a number that is known as the capability score. The capability score, also known as
the CP score, looks at the ratio between at the ratio between the weights
of the specification level relative to six times the standard
deviation in the process. This number here tells us
the capability of the process. Notice that the way that we can increase
process capability is by either making the specifications more forgiving. It's the higher capability if would
assume the specifications were 47 to 53. Or maybe using the standard variation. Both of these will reduce
the likelihood of defect. Let me illustrate the object of capability
support on the following slide. Just as a reminder, this is
the definition of the capability score. The upper specifications of it minus
the lower specifications of it, divided by 6 times the standard deviation. Now imagine two distributions. One of them has a density function
that has a little larger variance. And you notice here,
how you can go three standard deviations from the mean of the distribution
before you hit the specification limit. Now on the lower case you see
the distribution that has a lower variance that you need to go six
standard deviations before you're going to incur a defect. Now clearly defects are less
likely in the lower case. There's simply less probability
mass at the tails here. So this suggests that we can compute or
we can translate the capability scores of the distribution into
the probability of defects. Let me illustrate this calculation
by going back into our spreadsheet. So how likely is it going to be that we
encounter bag of M&Ms that are heavier than 52 grams? So what's the probability
that the bag is too heavy? I can get to this by using the normal
distribution function in Excel and looking at the 52 grams
relative to a distribution with 50 as a mean and
1.1 as the standard deviations. That probability is 96%
that it stays below this, or the probability is to heavy,
it simply one minus that, which is 3.4%. Now next, ask ourselves what's probability that this is too small
of a bag, or that this is too light? Well for that I have to look
at the normal distribution. This time with the lower specification number, 50 and
1.1 is the standard deviation. And this is equals 3.3%. Now for a defect I either need
to have the bag be too heavy or too light, and so the sum of those two
is simply the probability of a defect. Now I can take this number and
I can multiply this with, say, a million units in a production run to get a number that is known as the ppm,
the parts per million. So we have 67,818 defective
per million parts. So you notice that
the capability score for around 0.6 as we just
saw in the M&M example. This equating to a defect
probability of around 0.067%, or put differently,
67,000 defects in a million parts. Now, in this table we
show the relationship between the capability score and
defect probabilities. For example, at a capability score of 1,
we can go three sigmas from the mean to either
side of the specification levels. And we have a defect probability of 0.027. Put differently, you're going to have
2,700 defects per million parts. No where did these numbers come from? Now let's first look at
a three sigma process. What's the defect probability? Well I have to go three
standard deviations before I hit the specification element. Let's assume the underlying distribution
is a standard normal distribution, which is having a mean of zero and
a standard deviation of one. So for a defect,
I have to hit the number 3. So I'm looking at the normal distribution,
mean 0, standard deviation of 1,
which is the value of 99.865%. So 1 minus that probability, gets me the
probability of the part being too large. This is also the probability
of the part being too small. So, assuming here's symmetry,
I can just double this number and that gives you the 0.027 that you
all saw on the earlier table. Now let's move this further and
look at the six sigma process. With six sigma,
you have to go six standard deviations and you notice that this number here
becomes ridiculously small. It's a little hard to interpret here so
let's not look at it as a probability but as a defect per million parts. So we have to multiply
this with one million and we see that the number
here is roughly 0.002. In other words we're going to
have 2 defects per billion parts. So a quality target is typically
expressed in defect probabilities, or parts per million. We see in this table that can be
matched to a capability score. This allows me to ask myself for a given
specification limit, what is the amount of variability in the process that I can
tolerate before violating my quality goal. Let me go back to the example of the M&Ms. So we said we had the USL-LSL/6sigma and that had to be, if I'm aiming for 6 sigma
operation, that would have to equate to 2. Now, in our example,
the difference here between the USL and the LSL was 4 and so
that gives me an equation I can solve. 4/6sigma=2. And so in other words sigma
is equal to one-third. So just to gain some confidence
in our calculations, let's go back to our sales spreadsheet and take the current comparably observed
standard deviation of 1.1 and replace it by our new goal of
a standard deviation of one-third. Of the numbers we compute and you see that
the parts per million go down to 0.002 which is the two parts per
billion that we talked about. In 2009 the EU bureaucrats finally
decided to cancel the resolution 1677-88. That makes you hopeful that one day
they can also resolve the Euro crisis. But more to the point of this session, we saw that variation
exists almost everywhere. Even in a highly industrialized product,
such as packaged M&M chocolate, we saw a considerable amount of
variation from one package to the other. Would you really call the package a defect just because it has one extra
gram of chocolate in that? That is a matter of
the product specification. We saw how the CP score measures
the process capability by really looking at the variation
that you have in the process relative to the allowable variation
that you get out of the specifications. We also saw that it's the capability score
of something that tells you how many defects you're likely to make in
a thousand or in a million parts. And that's a really good metric that you
want to track over time to see how you're getting better, or across your suppliers to see who's
giving you the highest quality product.