At the beginning of this module
we define productivity as a ratio between output and input. After having spent the last couple
of sessions at the front line, looking at an operation
at a very micro level, we are now taking more
aggregate level perspective. We will again look at the U.S.
airline industry. We define labor productivity as a ratio
between revenue and total labor expenses. Beyond just defining the labor
productivity and comparing it across airlines, our goal is to really dive into
understanding the drivers of productivity. We define productivity as
the ratio between output and input often time however,
it is difficult to measure output. So it is common in productivity analysis
to use revenue numbers instead. We also often have multiple
input factors such as labor, materials, capital, and other things. One way to avoid adjusting for these
multiple categories is simply to define one productivity ratio for each category. For example, we can speak about the labor
productivity as a ratio between revenue and labor expense. Let's try this out for the U.S.
airline industry. In 1995, U.S. Airways had 6.98
billion dollars of revenue. Their labor cost was $2.87 billion. This gives us a labor productivity of 6.98 divided by 2.87 equals to 2.43. 16 years later, the numbers have changed, revenue had grown to 13.34,
with the labor expenses being at 2.41. This has increased the labor
productivity thus to 5.53. Notice that labor productivity in those 16
years at U.S. Airways more than doubled. The situation at Southwest
looks as follows. In 1995, their labor productivity
was given by 2.87 billion dollars in revenue divided
by 0.93 billion dollars for labor expenses,
equals to 3.08 as the labor productivity. You see here that this was
a significantly higher number than U.S. Airways had at that time. 16 years later, Southwest was able to grow
its business to 13.65 billion dollars. However, later expenses
also grew significantly and were now 4.81 billion dollars,
creating a labor productivity of 3.26. Which is actually slightly lower compared
to the current number at U.S. Airways. But what does the higher labor
productivity actually mean? Are the workers working any harder? Have we squeezed out the idle time? Is the process underlying
the operation smarter than before? What really account for the difference. Consider again out definition
of labor productivity as a ratio between revenue and labor costs. Now work with me through
the following equation. We can rewrite the revenue to
the labor costs as the revenue divided by the revenue passenger miles created by
the airline, times the revenue passenger miles, times the available seat miles,
times the available seat miles divided by the employees, times the employees
divided by the labor cost. Now you might be scratching
your head here a little bit. But at least you will hopefully agree
with me that mathematically this equation is true. After all, this term cancels against this
term, this term cancels against this term and this term cancels against this term,
and we are back to the initial expression. Now what is the benefit of
writing the equation this way? It reminds us that there
are multiple things going on, that are all driving the labor cost. The labor productivity. We see here in the first factor
the revenue to the number of miles that we sell. This is really driven by
the airlines pricing power, for that reason, often times this
is what's called the yield. How much can we yield? How much do we get out of
the capacity that we have available? The revenue passenger miles divided
by the available seat miles really measures to what extent we
are able to fill our aircraft. In many ways this is a form
of utilization of capacity. Now the last two of these ratios here
are actually really touching the labor. The first of these ratios is how much
capacity can we get out of each employee. The second one looks at the cost
of sourcing these employees which is basically their wages. Notice that these four different
ratios catch a four different things. I cannot go to an employee at U.S. Airways and say, hey, your labor
productivity is slow, just because the pricing has been done poorly or
the aircraft has been flying half empty. With this is mind, breaking up the aggregate level of
productivity into these smaller drivers is quite revealing because it tells you what
really is going on in the operation. Let's apply our new knowledge
by going back to the U.S. Airline industry and compare the labor
productivity across the big carrier. We said the rate of labor productivity was
driven by the ratio between the revenue and the labor cost. For the case of American Airlines,
we're dividing the revenue, divided by the labor cost, and we can copy
this to the cells of the other carriers. We notice quite some
variation with Frontier getting a labor productivity ratio of six,
and quite interestingly, Southwest being at the bottom of the pack
with a productivity ratio of 3.2. We then look into
the drivers of this effect, we compute the yield as a ratio
between the total revenue and the number of passenger miles that
were actually sold by the airline. For this again we look at the revenue
divided by the revenue passenger miles. And we roll this out
across all the carry outs. You notice that the companies obtaining
the biggest prices in the industry are the legacy carriers such as United or
U.S. Airways. Next we look at RPM to ASM which we said was the ratio between the miles that were
sold and the miles that were available. In other word, the aircraft utilization. RPM by ASM turns out to be relatively
constant across the carriers, with most carriers booking
the airplanes up to about 80% utilization. Now consider the ratio between the ASN, which is really the capacity that has been
provided and the number of employees. So ASN divided by employees. If we compare this across the carriers. We see that the leader in productivity on
that side is clearly Virgin America. Southwest though does relatively well
compared to its immediate competitors the Legacy Airlines. As a final ratio, we'll look at
the FTEs relative to the labor cost. That measures how many people I can
hire for a given amount of money. Technically this is simply one over
the wage rate of the employees. Well when we divide FTE
divided by labor cost, we see surprisingly high differences
in salaries across airlines. For example you notice that
Southwest by now pays its employees really, really well. Remember you have to take one over this
number to get to the actual wages. This is in sharp contrast to
how it was some 15 years ago, where Southwest was paying much
lower wages than their competitors. Most of the legacy carriers had gone
through bankruptcy and restructuring and by now are paying employees
significantly less. All these four variables together explain
variation and labor productivity. So when we say that one company has a
higher labor productivity than the other. We really need to be careful in
distinguishing between these four forces. Measuring productivity using
accurate level data can be easy, however it also can be misleading. As we saw with the data in the U.S. Airline industry,
many variables drive labor productivity. Labor productivity is not just under the
control of the labor, but things such as the pricing, the fleet utilization have
a direct impact on labor productivity. Productivity ratios allow you to take
care of these confounding effects and only measure the value of
the productivity that you care about. In general in your work I always
encourage you to take two approaches. First, look top down,
start from the financial and work yourself down into the operations
using tools such as a productivity ratio, compliment this with observational
data from the front line. Look at the operational data and aggregate them using the tools such as the
KPI tree that we saw in an earlier session in this module to look how they
are driving financial performance. This is where you get a balanced view
of your productivity in the operation.